Next up we have cue's CU's are a core element in any MQ protocol but especially for rabit MQ It is the
foundational element in Rabbitte MQ messages are routed to cues from exchanges just as we talked earlier
about this.
Messages are being routed to cues from exchanges using the bindings cues are simply like final destinations
and rabbit.
Q Before being received by subscribers this is a very key point here because your consumer only knows
about the cues.
They don't know about the exchange or anything else.
They configured their client regarding just queue configuration and then they receive their messages
from Bocuse.
Routing algorithms depends on the Xchange type and rules called bindings.
Just as we saw with the Xchange example and exchange definitions bindings are very important in rabit.
Q You have to properly bind your exchanges and Qs so that your consumers can receive messages properly.
Bindings are again simply used to bind exchanges to queues for message delivery.
I'm pointing this out again and again just because you need to learn this because this is a very important
concept in rabbit MQ bindings are being done from exchanges to accuse.
So there are a couple of properties of a queue.
And let's start one by one.
Of course AQ is going to have a name the name of the Q that you define.
You can define simply anything for your Q As the name.
And there is the durability and the variable for that is call as durable durable state shrub it is cute
that it should either persist your cue to the disk or not.
So this is another important concept in rabbit.
Q.
You can have durable cues for later message delivery.
This is about like retry mechanisms and failover mechanisms.
This is an important concept and we're definitely going to get there in our following lectures.
Just don't worry about it right now but you should know that you can have durable cues in your Xchange
and there is a property as exclusive as seclusive simply defines that if there are no items in the queue
and the queue can simply be deleted by the system by the rabid MQ.
This is the flag for it.
And there is also a flag as auto dash delete and this flag indicates rabbit named that the queue can
be deleted when there are no consumer subscriptions.
So simply if there are no consumer subscribe to your queue down your queue can be deleted by Robert
MQ itself the Broecker itself.